[Music]
you finally made it
high school and chances are you're
feeling nervous excited and let's admit
it pretty scared it's okay
breathe you got this and if you're
looking for tips on how to kick your
freshman year off right and keep it that
way
then I've got just what you need number
one go to orientation most schools have
an orientation day for incoming freshers
and yeah it means going to school when
you don't have to go to school seems
lame at first but you'll be glad you did
among other things it'll at least give
you a chance to learn the layout of the
building you're about to spend the next
few years in hey high school was the
best five years of my life come on it's
bad enough getting run over by
upperclassmen as you tried to read the
numbers on each classroom door don't
make it worse by annoying the teacher on
the first day because you showed up late
after getting lost number two learn your
schedule if you have it ahead of time
great read it memorize it and know where
each of your classrooms will be hey good
thing you decided to roll out of bed and
cut your summer one day short by going
to orientation plus if you learn your
schedule you'll know how early or late
your lunch period is and plan
accordingly three don't go crazy with
the school supplies especially before
you've even started classes it may seem
like a good idea to grab everything you
see in the back-to-school aisle at the
store you never know when you'll need an
extra hole puncher right still your
teachers will let you know exactly what
you're going to need for each class on
day one so wait make a list and hit the
store after your first day who knows
maybe your parents will reward you for
saving their money for get a planner
here's one school supply you'll want to
have on hand right away it doesn't have
to be anything fancy a simple notebook
with a calendar will do but what's most
important than having a planner is
actually using it right down assignments
test dates that random thing you heard
about in the morning announcements and
want to look into
on it's like your own personal secretary
you don't have to remember anything or
worry about forgetting it your planner
will remind you each time you open it
five learn your teachers names they may
not have a clue who you are until a
month into the year but they have a lot
more students than you do teachers
learning their names is key because
you'll want to know who to address when
you need to run to the bathroom number
six sit up front
unless your class has specific assigned
seats try to sit near the front be
particularly diligent about this tip if
it's a subject you struggle with no this
has nothing to do with sucking up to the
teacher it's all about keeping yourself
engaged enough so that you don't flunk
if all the seats up front are taken opt
for the back instead teachers tend to
notice and engage with the front and
back of the classroom and this will at
least keep you from getting lost in the
mix avoid seats near the window to how
easy is it to stare outside and daydream
when your teacher is going on and on
about some guy named sohcahtoa am i
right
number seven ask questions all the time
any chance you get it's okay to not know
Thanks that's why you're in school after
all and if someone asks you a question
you don't know the answer to don't fake
it or respond with a bad joke just be
honest and say no idea this way you'll
get the answer and then you'll know
number eight talk to your classmates
your first year of high school is the
best time to step out of your comfort
zone because nobody is comfortable that
Tod dude you see high-fiving everyone in
the hallway between classes may seem
like he has his stuff together but todd
is probably overcompensating for his
insecurities if you hear a conversation
you can chime in on speak up unless it's
Todd in which case he's probably already
talking to you number nine
choose electives wisely chances are this
is the first time you'll have an
opportunity to choose from classes that
interest you so do just that don't use
this as an excuse to take the one class
you know all your friends are going to
especially if it's not something you
think you'll enjoy and be successful in
instead consider this an opportunity to
finally try out something new you've
always wanted to know more about 10
don't be afraid to ask for a schedule
change that said don't overreact on day
one either
if you find yourself a week or two into
the semester and it's clear that this
class is either too difficult or on the
flip side not challenging enough reach
out to your counselor and try to find a
solution you don't want to stick it out
in a class that's going to crush your
GPA or keep you from learning just
because you were too afraid to speak up
and let someone know 11 structure your
time when you're not in school that cool
planner you got isn't just for in school
hours you also need a schedule for
before and after classes that you can
stick to you want to keep your schedule
full but not too full if you know what I
mean make sure you not only include time
for after-school activities and homework
but also time to relax hang out with
friends and catch up on your favorite
shows 12 don't let a bad day or week
turn into a bad semester or longer rough
days are going to happen a lousy grade
on a test or an argument with a friend
can really weigh on you even if you
refuse to think that it will what's
important here is to not let those
negative feelings spiral out of control
take a step back and use these moments
as an opportunity to learn and get back
to the better days ahead 13 remember
grades aren't everything now I'm not
saying they don't mean anything because
they do but high school is about a lot
more than a perfect grade point average
if you have a choice between getting
extra credit that you don't even need
and going to a show with some friends go
out with your pals just remember there's
a balancing act that has to take place
don't let anyone convince you that
having perfect grades or an amazing
social life are mutually exclusive 14
keep a private journal
again nothing fancy or expensive a
regular old notebook will do the fact is
this first year of high school is going
to go by so fast you won't even believe
it you'll blink and summer will be right
around the corner
hey you'll blink again and your 20 year
reunion will be coming up trust me
taking five minutes at the end of each
day to jot down your thoughts feelings
and the stuff you did will help you slow
it all down just enough to keep you
focused on your experiences along the
way 15 don't document everything on
social media bad days or great days
it can't be tempting to put it all out
there as you're feeling it but when it
comes to posting it all online use some
discretion the last thing you need is to
show up to school one day after sending
what was supposed to be a private post
for a close group of friends only to
overhear high-fiving Todd talking about
it in homeroom if you got to put it down
somewhere to work it out of your system
that's what the private journal is for
16 make some goals take a moment to ask
yourself what you want out of your first
year of high school to make the team try
out for a play ace every class dip your
toe in the dating game whew that's a
scary one but fine once that bell rings
it's so easy to get lost in the
day-to-day grind even having just a
short list of what you want out of your
time this year will help you make the
most of it 17 don't fall into freshmen
mentality during your first year it'll
be tempting to slack off a little bit
thinking you'll make up for it when it
really counts junior and senior year no
no no don't fall into that trap take the
time and effort now to spare yourself of
the future anxiety the fact is freshman
year is the easiest it's going to get
knowing this ahead of time and you'll be
glad you work so hard to beef up your
GPA early on now it's your turn what are
you most excited to experience during
your freshman year let me know down in
the comments if you learned something
new today think
this video a like and share with a
friend but hey don't go hanging out with
Todd just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is click
on this left or right video and enjoy
stay on the bright side of life